---
title: We're now integrating persons of interest from Wikidata!
summary: |
    The structured-data edition of Wikipedia offers a compelling source of information
    on many persons in the public eye. Mining the data is, however, not for the faint
    if heart.
---

Wikidata is as ambitious a project as you can imagine: a fully structured knowledge graph encyclopedia, describing knowledge from all domains of human thought. These facts are contributed by hundreds of humans and robots - the [Peppercat project](https://peppercat.org) we [wrote about this week](/articles/2022-01-18-peppercat/) is a good example.

Probably the most exciting aspect of Wikidata from an investigative or due diligence perspective is its profiles of living persons: politicians, businesspeople, even terrorists. These profiles are often incredibly details, giving not just basic information (birth dates and places, roles in different organizations), but also rich name variations in dozens of alphabets and even details on family relations.

What's more, unlike many other data source, the items in Wikidata are almost always perfectly de-duplicated: there is exactly one identifier (a "Q-ID") referring to [Vladimir Putin: Q7747](https://www.opensanctions.org/entities/Q7747/). All language-specific Wikipedia articles on this subject are linked to this item, and if anyone were to create a new item for the Russian president, it would soon be discarded in favor of the existing one.

But all this comes at a price: Wikidata is notoriously complex. Underlying the platform is a unique attempt to design an ontology - a set of commonly agreed classes and properties - for all human knowledge. Each fact about an item is recorded as a statement. President Putin, for example, is linked via property #569 to the 7. October 1952: it is his birthdate (P569). Annotating this statement are multiple references and qualifiers, for example links to news articles and reference databases were this fact was sourced.


* Names in many alphabets 
* Mapping loads of properties
* Getting family graphs
* Fair to assume it is de-duplicated

* Complex data model with truthiness levels
* Sometimes too precise: countries that don't exist any more
* Caching the data to avoid interfering with the Wikidata API